# A practise repository for process workshops and reviews

Feedback from Review 1:

#### Focus on:

- Red - Green - COMMIT! - Refactor
- Create the input-output table and start with the simplest inputs

#### Tests:

- How many things am I testing here?
  If this answer is not 1 then ask:
- How many things have I already tested?

### Practise Codewars TDD:

#### April 15th: 8kyu, Javascript, 10mins:

Imagine you are creating a game where the user has to guess the correct number. But there is a limit of how many guesses the user can do.

- If the user tries to guess more than the limit, the function should throw an error.
- If the user guess is right it should return true.
- If the user guess is wrong it should return false and lose a life.

Create the game game so all the rules are met.

number of tries = 3
number = 10
let guesser = Guess.new(10,3)

| Input             | Output                     |
| ----------------- | -------------------------- |
| guesser.guess(10) | true                       |
| guesser.guess(1)  |                            |
| guesser.guess(9)  |                            |
| guesser.guess(9)  | Error: "you no lives left" |
| guesser.guess(9)  | false                      |
| guesser.guess(9)  |                            |
| guesser.lives     | 2                          |

#### Reflection:

- started this from the beginning not half way complete so it took longer than 10mins
- the coverage report was helpful and enabled me to write tests to cover those lines.

#### April 20th: 7kyu, Javascript, Time taken: 1 hour?

Your task here is to define how much coffee you need to stay awake after your night. You will have to complete a function that take an array of events in arguments, according to this list you will return the number of coffee you need to stay awake during day time. Note: If the count exceed 3 please return 'You need extra sleep'.

The list of events can contain the following:

You come here, to solve some kata ('cw').

You have a dog or a cat that just decide to wake up too early ('dog' or 'cat').

You just watch a movie ('movie').

Other events can be present and it will be represent by arbitrary string, just ignore this one.

Each event can be downcase/lowercase, or uppercase. If it is downcase/lowercase you need 1 coffee by events and if it is uppercase you need 2 coffees.

| Input                          | Output                 |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| []                             | 0                      |
| [ "cw" ]                       | 1                      |
| [ "movie"]                     | 1                      |
| [ "cat"]                       | 1                      |
| [ "dog"]                       | 1                      |
| [ "cw-more"]                   | 0                      |
| [ "CW" ]                       | 2                      |
| [ "DOG" ]                      | 2                      |
| [ "CAT" ]                      | 2                      |
| [ "MOVIE" ]                    | 2                      |
| [ "cat", "dog "]               | 2                      |
| [ "cat", "dog", "movie"]       | 3                      |
| [ "cat", "dog", "movie", "cw"] | "You need extra sleep" |
| [ "MOVIE", "CAT" ]             | "You need extra sleep" |
| [ "cat", "DOG"]                | 3                      |

#### Reflection:

- This took quite a long time - maybe 1 hour in total over a few days
- I wrote more production code than necessary to pass the tests I think as that meant
  some tests just passed straight away, potentially my tests are too broken down?

#### April 27th: 7kyu, Javascript, Time taken: 1 hour

You have cultivated a plant, and after months of hard work, the time has come to reap the flowers of your hard work. When it was growing, you added water and fertilizer, and kept a constant temperature. It's time check how much your plant has grown.

A plant is represented horizontally, from the base to the left, to the end to the right:

---@---@---@
The stem is represented by hyphens -, and the flowers are represented by symbols. A plant always starts with the stem, and always ends with flowers.

Four parameters will be given. The four parameters are:

```
seed (string) - determines the type of flowers generated by the plant.
water (integer) - each unit of water extends the portion of stem between the flowers. It also gives how many times the stems + flower clusters should be repeated
fert (integer) - each unit of fertilizer increases the amount of flowers, grouped in clusters
temp (integer) - if the temperature given is in the range of 20°C and 30°C, the plant grows normally, otherwise, all the flowers die except for one flower at the end of the stem.
```

| Input         | Output                     |
| ------------- | -------------------------- |
| "@", 1, 1, 20 | "-@"                       |
| "!", 1, 1, 20 | "-!"                       |
| "@", 2, 1, 20 | "--@--@"                   |
| "@", 1, 2, 20 | "-@@"                      |
| "@", 2, 2, 20 | "--@@--@@"                 |
| "@", 2, 2, 19 | "----@"                    |
| "$", 4, 2, 30 | "----$$----$$----$$----$$" |

#### April 29th: 8kyu, Javascript, time taken 10 mins

The company you work for has just been awarded a contract to build a payment gateway. In order to help move things along, you have volunteered to create a function that will take a float and return the amount formatting in dollars and cents.

```
39.99 becomes $39.99
```

The rest of your team will make sure that the argument is sanitized before being passed to your function although you will need to account for adding trailing zeros if they are missing (though you won't have to worry about a dangling period).

```
3 needs to become $3.00
3.1 needs to become $3.10
```

| Input | Output   |
| ----- | -------- |
| 1.99  | "$1.99"  |
| 12.99 | "$12.99" |
| 3     | "$3.00"  |
| 3.1   | "$3.10"  |
| 0     | "$0.00"  |

#### Reflection:

- understood the idea more of not needing to know the all the methods and feeling more comfortable about researching these
- committed well until the last test

#### May 3rd 7ku, Javascript, Time taken: 30mins

Implement a function which takes a sequence of objects and a property name, and returns a sequence containing the named property of each object.

For example:

pluck([{a:1}, {a:2}], 'a') // -> [1,2]
pluck([{a:1, b:3}, {a:2}], 'b') // -> [3, undefined]
If an object is missing the property, you should just leave it as undefined/None in the output array.

| Input                    | Output         |
| ------------------------ | -------------- |
| [{a:1}], 'a'             | [1]            |
| [{a:2}], 'a'             | [2]            |
| [{b:1}], 'b'             | [1]            |
| [{a:2}], 'b'             | [undefined]    |
| [{a:2}, {a:3}], 'a'      | [2,3]          |
| [{a:1, b:3}], 'b'        | [3]            |
| [{a:1, b:3}, {a:2}], 'a' | [1,2]          |
| [{a:1, b:3}, {a:2}], 'b' | [3, undefined] |

#### Reflections

- Some of the tests pass straight away, this means that the tests are testing the same thing or combining statements that already work. And that I am writing code that does more than pass the one failing test e.g. not hard coding the property name but using the parameter. I think this comes from when the logic is clearer.

#### May 3rd 6ku, Javascript, Time taken: 45 mins

zipWith takes a function and two arrays and zips the arrays together, applying the function to every pair of values.
The function value is one new array.

If the arrays are of unequal length, the output will only be as long as the shorter one.
(Values of the longer array are simply not used.)

Examples
zipWith( Math.pow, [10,10,10,10], [0,1,2,3] ) => [1,10,100,1000]
zipWith( Math.max, [1,4,7,1,4,7], [4,7,1,4,7,1] ) => [4,7,7,4,7,7]

zipWith( function(a,b) { return a+b; }, [0,1,2,3], [0,1,2,3] ) => [0,2,4,6] Both forms are valid.
zipWith( (a,b) => a+b, [0,1,2,3], [0,1,2,3] ) => [0,2,4,6] Both are functions.

| Input               | Output |
| ------------------- | ------ |
| (add, [0], [0])     | [0]    |
| (add, [1], [0])     | [1]    |
| (add, [1,2], [0,2]) | [1,4]  |
| (add, [1,2], [2])   | [3]    |

test input function to be const add = function(a,b) { return a+b; }

#### Reflection

- I think I would maybe need to mock the function parameter in the future because these tests would then fail if there was a fail with the function.

### June 3rd, 7ku, Algorithms, Javascript, Time Taken: 45mins total

i is the imaginary unit, it is defined by `i² = -1`, therefore it is a solution to `x² + 1 = 0`
Create a function pofi that returns i to the power of a given non-negative integer in its simplest form, as a string (answer may contain i).

| Input   | Output |
| ------- | ------ |
| pofi(0) | "1"    |
| pofi(1) | "i"    |
| pofi(2) | "-1"   |
| pofi(3) | "-i"   |
| pofi(4) | "1"    |
| pofi(5) | "i"    |

edge case is 0 - anything to the power of 0 is one

alternating odd numbers go from i to -i
odd power that is divisible by 2 an odd number of times will be -i (eg 7 is divisible by 2, 3 times remainder 1)
odd power that is divisible by 2 an even number of times will be i (eg 5 is divisible by 2, 4 times remainder 1)
even number which is an even multiple of 2 eg 4,8,12 is 1 eg i^8 = i^(2x4) = 1
even number which is an odd multpiple of 2 eg 2,6,10 is -1 eg i^6 = i^(2x3) = -1

#### Reflection

I was forgetting to commit as regularly as before. Refactored completely at the end.
Bonus: found how to test one single test file which makes it a lot quicker!

### June 7th, 7kyu, Javascript, time taken: 35 mins

Given an array of integers, remove the smallest value. Do not mutate the original array/list. If there are multiple elements with the same value, remove the one with a lower index. If you get an empty array/list, return an empty array/list.

Don't change the order of the elements that are left.

| Input           | Output       |
| --------------- | ------------ |
| []              | []           |
| [1, 2, 3]       | [ 2, 3]      |
| [2, 1, 2]       | [ 2, 2]      |
| [2, 4, 1, 2, 1] | [2, 4, 2, 1] |

### Reflection

Committing was better (clearer messages and more often)
Used MDN/Stack for learning about JS inbuilt functions

#### June 8th, 6kyu, Javascript, Time taken: 1 hour

Write a function that will take in any array and reverse it.
NOTES:
Array should be reversed in place! (no need to return it)
Usual built-ins have been deactivated. Don't count on them.
You'll have to do it fast enough, so think about performances

| Input        | Output        |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| [2, 3]       | [3, 2]        |
| [1, 2, 3]    | [3, 2, 1]     |
| [9, 6, 1, 8] | [8, 1, 6, 9 ] |

If array.length is odd, middle number will stay the same
If array.length is even, all numbers switch
Need a temporary space to hold the value you are swapping out

### Reflection

This not was approached as TDD. I felt like I wanted to figure out the maths and the logic before I started coding so I had my algorithm in mind before I wrote any test.

I didn't write enough tests at first to check my algorithm so when I submitted on CodeWars it failed. This showed me the real benefit of TDD.

Positives: I wrote my first performance time test

#### June 14th, 6kyu, Javascript, Time taken: 1 hour

Implement a function that will return a message indicating the winner of the round. If there's no winner, return the string "No points scored".

It takes an `array of balls` that are objects. Each ball has 2 properties: type and distance.

The type will be "red", "black", or "jack". For all test cases, the jack will be the last element on the balls array. The distance property will be an array with two integer values. The first value is the distance thrown forward, the second value is the distance thrown left or right (negative values indicate distance to the left). For the purposes of this Kata, all balls are thrown from the same initial point.

| Input                                                                                                            | Output             |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| [ { type: "black", distance: [70, 0]}, { type: "red", distance: [85, 0]}, { type: "jack", distance: [80, 0]}]    | "red scores 1"     |
| [ { type: "black", distance: [70, -1]}, { type: "red", distance: [85, -1]},{ type: "jack", distance: [80, -5]} ] | "red scores 1"     |
| [ { type: "black", distance: [70, 0]}, { type: "red", distance: [90, 0]},{ type: "jack", distance: [80, 0]} ]    | "No points scored" |
